---
permalink: /
title: "Discovery science of the human brain"
excerpt: "About me"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

It is the greatest challenge to open up the black-box of human brain. My long-term goal is to understand the complexity of human brain, especially its connectome (i.e., the comprehensive high-dimensional description of the brain network). I use integrative neuroimaging and computational modeling methods to explore development-related patterns and complexity in connectomics, seeking knowledge that will translate into a better life style and education settings as well as diagnosis/treatment for patients by establishing normative trajectories of the conenctome across the human lifespan. 

Research summary
======
The human brain is highly dynamic across the lifespan. The emerging network neuroscience framework together with brain imaging techniques (e.g., resting-state fMRI, rfMRI) provide unprecedented opportunities to delineate the dynamics of brain function across the lifespan. In the past decade (2010-2020), my research has mainly focused on the lifespan connectomics of the human brain by using rfMRI to 1) systematically evaluated the test-retest reliability for common measurements in functional connectomics, 2) model lifespan age-related changes of human brain networks, and 3) establish open resources for reproducible brain mapping research. These works are
paving the way for developing neuroimaging biomarkers of both typical and atypical brain development as well as achieving better understanding of neurobiological basis and origin of individual differences in cognition and behavior across the lifespan.

Measurement Reliability of Neuroimaging Individual Differences
======
Measurement reliability is essential for studying individual differences in human brain function, especially clinical and neurodevelopmental as well as studies of aging. In theory, reliability serves as an upper limit of validity and is measurable in
practice while validity is more difficult to measure directly (e.g., specific trait and disease) thus often approximated by predictive validity. Therefore, high reliability is a required standard for both research and clinical use (e.g., clinical measurement scales
need an almost prefect reliability, ICC>0.8). This reflects clinical call of measurements with high inter-individual differences (easily differentiating individuals) and low intra-individual differences (high individual stability across measuring occasions). As recently demonstrated, it is even more crucial that lack of reliability can be an important cause of less statistical power, low reproducibility, puzzlingly high correlations, and unnecessarily large samples. Accordingly, I focus my research on the following questions: Whether the functional connectomic measurements are reliable? How the reliability of these measurements can be increased?

I have evaluated test-retest reliability of common rfMRI-based metrics including the amplitude of low-frequency fluctuations, independent component analysis derived with dual-regression (ICA-DR), functional homotopy (VMHC), network centrality and local functional homogeneity (ReHo). In 2014, based upon these reliability studies, I conducted a systematic meta-research on test-retest reliability in functional connectomics found that the test-retest reliabilities are moderate for the most functional connectomic measurements and that there remains a large gap necessary for these methods to reach the clinical standard. According to these
observations, I recommended the use of functional connectomics with: 1) the instruction of eyes-open with fixation during rfMRI scans, 2) the setting of a longer duration for rfMRI scans, 3) the acceleration of imaging sequences for high tempospatial resolution, 4) the strategy of two-dimensional surface-based processing and analysis, 5) the use of ICA, ReHo and VMHC functional connectivity metrics, 6) the examination of default mode, frontoparietal control and attention networks.

To further improve the reliability of characterizing inter-individual differences in human brain function for identifying meaningful functional imaging-based biomarkers, I launched the Consortium for Reliability and Reproducibility (CoRR) in 2014. CoRR aggregated 1,629 typical individuals’ rfMRI data (5,093 rfMRI scans) from 18 international sites, and is openly sharing them. This allows researchers to generate various estimates of reliability and reproducibility, a variety of data acquisition procedures and experimental designs are included. Based on this large-scale reliability data, we developed a set of surface-based multi-modal, multiscale
neuroimaging markers of the human connectome. Specifically, we showed high intra-individual variability for cognitive components involving working memory, inhibition, attention, language and related neural networks. In contrast, limbic, default, frontoparietal and visual networks and their related cognitive components were more differentiable than somatomotor and attention networks across different
participants. I generated high-resolution test-retest reliability maps for these multiscale connectomic metrics. These findings represented the first collection of individual differences in multi-scale and multi-metric characterization of the human functional connectomes in-vivo, and offered normal references for the field to guide the individual differences research with brain connectomics. Among these metrics, the local functional homogeneity, a surface-based version of ReHo, was proposed as a network centrality to characterize multimodal local features of the connectome. I demonstrated its neurobiological links to the complexity of information processing, anatomical morphology and brain development.

Open Resources for Reproducible Human Brain Mapping
======
A fundamental challenge for human brain mapping is to develop an efficient, robust, reliable and easy-to-use pipeline to mine big neuroimaging data. I developed a computational pipeline for discovery science of human brain connectomes at the macroscale with MRI technologies63, the Connectome Computation System ([CCS](https://github.com/zuoxinian/CCS)). CCS is designed with a three-level hierarchical structure that includes data cleaning and preprocessing, individual connectome mapping and connectome mining, and knowledge discovery. Several functional modules are embedded into this hierarchy to implement quality control procedures, reliability analysis and connectome visualization. We demonstrated the utility of CCS for delineating the normative trajectories of large-scale neural networks across the life span (6-85 years of age). My team also contributed to several widely-used software toolboxes for rfMRI data processing and analysis such as REST and DPABI. All these tools are open resources and shared publicly to the research community.

Beyond the computational platforms, my group are involved in many open neuroscience efforts. [CoRR](http://fcon_1000.projects.nitrc.org/indi/CoRR) is a representative one-stop sharing resource via the International Data-sharing
Neuroimaging Initiative (INDI) for reproducible human brain mapping. Based upon the 200 citations that it has received since publication (Google Scholar in September 2019), its influences can be summarized into three folds (Author’s Corner at Nature Scientific Data). First, it has increased the recognition of a cultural shift toward sharing big data in human neuroscience and clinical applications. Second, it has highlighted to both research and clinical communities the need for large test-retest data to achieve reliable imaging measures for the production of replicable associations between genetic variation, environmental experience, and psychopathological
symptomatology, reinforcing the fact that the validity of a measure can never be greater than its reliability. Finally, it has emerged as a testbed for developing new methodologies and evaluating their reliability and reproducibility. To further call on the community to utilize CoRR datasets, we launched a Research Topic ‘Reliability and Reproducibility in Functional Connectomics’ in Frontiers journal119. To integrate the multi-center test-retest design into a lifespan cohort, we initiated the Chinese Color Nest Project (CCNP), a large-scale accelerated longitudinal design for collecting data of the human brain and behavior (1200 participants, 6-85 years old) in ten years (2013-2022). As acknowledged in our recent commentary, the CCNP contains an important component (stdCCNP) for reliability, reproducibility and replicability (R3BRAIN). Meanwhile, using its development component, devCCNP (Growing Up in China), we developed and
shared a protocol for charting brain growth for school-aged children.

Modeling Lifespan Dynamics of Human Brain Connectome
------
Supported by the advances detailed in 1) and 2), my group working together with collaborators revealed the human parietal memory network as well as the dynamics of the human brain connectomes at the systems level during the lifespan. We showed that ICA can detect reliable brain networks. This motivates me to employ ICA-derived reproducible metrics to investigate the lifespan trajectories of intrinsic functional networks. A stronger age dependence in the spatial pattern of a parietal (mainly the precuneus and dorsal posterior cingulate cortex) network compared to the default mode network (DMN) was observed. This observation is robust against head motion across age and post-hoc confirmative functional connectivity analyses. My previous study found the lifespan age-related decreases of the network centrality in the similar areas. Using the same lifespan datasets but different measurements of the human connectomes, my collaborators also produced consistent results supporting the age dependence of the parietal network as part of the frontoparietal cognitive control network. My colleagues and I thus proposed that this network has a different functional role than the DMN, which declines with age. Following publications from my group, a group of scientists from Washington University in St Louis named this network as the parietal memory network (PMN) in terms of its function related to learning and memory (Neuron 84: 681-696; Trends in Cognitive Sciences 19: 534-543). My work demonstrated that PMN is the most dynamical network of the brain connectome across the human lifespan, echoing the
lifespan plasticity of its function in human mind and behaviors.

We surveyed empirical findings (including ours described above) in life-span connectomics and proposed a generative framework for computationally modeling the connectome over the human life span. Our team systematically explored a family of generative models of the human connectome that yield synthetic networks designed according to different wiring rules combining geometric and a broad range of
topological factors88. I found that a combination of geometric constraints with a homophilic attachment mechanism can create synthetic networks that closely match many topological characteristics of individual human connectomes. My team used these models to investigate a lifespan dataset and showed that, with age, the model parameters undergo progressive changes, suggesting a rebalancing of the generative
factors underlying the connectome across the lifespan. This framework highlights the initial findings that across the life span, the human connectome gradually shifts from an ‘anatomically driven’ organization to one that more ‘topological’, providing the structural basis of functionally embedding large-scale networks into the connectome during the human lifespan development. 
