---
title: "Measurement Reliability and Validity of Mapping Individual Differences in Human Brain with MRI: From CoRR to R3BRAIN"
collection: talks
type: "Talk (60mins)"
permalink: /talks/2019-10-28-talk-2
venue: "The International Workshop for Advanced High-field MRI Techniques on Human Participants: 7T Ultra-High Field MRI Scanner and Repeated fMRI Measurement"
date: 2019-10-28
location: "Shanghai, China"
---

The neuroimaging community has made significant strides towards collecting large-scale neuroimaging datasets, which—until the past decade—had seemed out of reach. Between initiatives focused on the aggregation and open sharing of previously collected datasets and de novo data generation initiatives tasked with the creation of community resources, tens of thousands of datasets are now available online. These span a range of developmental statuses and disorders, allowing researchers to increase the scale of their studies, to apply various learning strategies (for example, artificial intelligence) with ambitions of brain-based biomarker discovery and to address questions regarding the reproducibility of findings, all at a pace that is unprecedented in imaging. In this talk, I will introduce a new statistical framework on reliability and validity of measuring the individual differences. Within this framework, the relationship among reliability, effect size, sample size was simulated under a given statistical power. This indicated that most previous work reported suboptimal reliability for translating the studies of individual differences into clinical biomarkers, thereby requiring unnecessarily large samples. A roadmap toward reliable human brain mapping from CoRR to R3BRAIN, the two large-scale reliability cohorts from our group, are extensively presented to provide examples of how the reliability can be increased. Although our examination of this critical deficiency focuses on the field of neuroimaging, the implications of our argument and the statistical principles discussed are broadly applicable for other scientific fields.
